'\" t
.\" @(#)lilo.8 1.0 950728 aeb
.\" This page is based on the lilo docs, which carry the following
.\" COPYING condition:
.\"
.\" LILO program code, documentation and auxiliary programs are
.\" Copyright 1992-1994 Werner Almesberger.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\" 
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms of parts of or the
.\" whole original or derived work are permitted provided that the
.\" original work is properly attributed to the author. The name of the
.\" author may not be used to endorse or promote products derived from
.\" this software without specific prior written permission. This work
.\" is provided "as is" and without any express or implied warranties.
.\"
.\" Original version, Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl), 950728
.\" Added t directive, as Daniel Quinlan asked, 950824
.\" Added L switch, John Coffman, 991118
.\"
.TH LILO 8 "20 March 2000"
.SH NAME
lilo \- install boot loader
.SH SYNOPSIS
Main function:
.LP
.B " /sbin/lilo"
\- install boot loader
.LP
Auxiliary uses:
.LP
.B " /sbin/lilo -q"
\- query map
.br
.B " /sbin/lilo -R"
\- set default command line for next reboot
.br
.B " /sbin/lilo -I"
\- inquire path name of current kernel
.br
.B " /sbin/lilo {-u|-U}"
\- uninstall lilo
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.B lilo
installs a boot loader that will be activated next time you boot.
It has lots of options.
.LP
.TP
.B \-\^v
Increase verbosity. Giving one or more \fB-v\fP options
will make lilo more verbose.
.TP
.B \-\^q
List the currently mapped files.
.B lilo
maintains a file, by default
.IR "/boot/map" ,
containing the name and location of the kernel(s) to boot.
This option will list the names therein.
.TP
.BI "\-\^m " map-file
Use specified map file instead of the default.
.TP
.BI "\-\^C " config-file
.B lilo
reads its instructions about what files to map from its
config file, by default
.IR "/etc/lilo.conf" .
This option can be used to specify a non-default config file.
.TP
.BI "\-\^d " delay
If you have specified several kernels, and press Shift at boot-time,
the boot loader will present you with a choice of which system
to boot. After a timeout period the first kernel in the list
is booted. This option specifies the timeout delay in deciseconds.
.TP
.BI "\-\^D " label
Use the kernel with the given label, instead of the first one
in the list, as the default kernel to boot.
.TP
.BI "\-\^r " root-directory
Before doing anything else, do a \fIchroot\fP to the indicated
directory. Used for repairing a setup from a boot floppy.
.TP
.BI "\-\^t "
Test only. Do not really write a new boot sector or map file.
Use together with \fB-v\fP to find out what
.B lilo
is about to do.
.TP
.B "\-\^c"
Enable map compaction. This will merge read requests from adjacent
sectors. Speeds up the booting (especially from floppy).
.TP
.BI "\-\^f " disk-tab
Specify disk geometry parameter file. (The default is
.IR /etc/disktab .)
.TP
.BI "\-\^i " boot-sector
Specify a file to be used as the new boot sector. (The default is
.IR /boot/boot.b .)
.TP
.BI "\-\^l"
Generate linear sector addresses instead of sector/head/cylinder
addresses.
.TP
.BI "\-\^L"
Generate 32-bit Logical Block Addresses instead of C:H:S addresses, allowing
access to all partitions on disks greater than 8.4Gb.
.TP
.BI "\-\^P " "{fix|ignore}"
Fix (or ignore) `corrupt' partition tables, i.e., partition tables
with linear and sector/head/cylinder addresses that do not correspond.
.TP
.BI "\-\^s " save-file
When
.B lilo
overwrites the boot sector, it preserves the old contents in
a file, by default
.I /boot/boot.NNNN
where NNNN depends on the device. This option specifies an
alternate save file for the boot sector. (Or, together with the
\fB-u\fP option, specifies from where to restore the boot sector.)
.TP
.BI "\-\^S " save-file
Normally,
.B lilo
will not overwrite an existing save file. This options says
that overwriting is allowed.
.TP
.BI "\-\^u " device-name
Uninstall
.BR lilo ,
by copying the saved boot sector back. A time-stamp is checked.
.TP
.BI "\-\^U " device-name
Idem, but do not check the time-stamp.
.TP
.BI "\-\^R " "command line"
This option sets the default command for the boot loader the next
time it executes. The boot loader will then erase this line: this
is a once-only command. It is typically used in reboot scripts,
just before calling `shutdown -r'.
.TP
.BI "\-\^I " "label"
The label of the running kernel can be found in the environment
variable BOOT_IMAGE after startup. This command will print the
corresponding path name on stdout.
.TP
.B "\-\^V"
Print version number.

.LP
The above command line options correspond to the key words
in the config file indicated below.
.IP
.TS
l l.
-b bootdev	boot=bootdev
-c	compact
-d dsec	delay=dsec
-D label	default=label
-i bootsector	install=bootsector
-f file	disktab=file
-l	linear
-L	lba32
-m mapfile	map=mapfile
-P fix	fix-table
-P ignore	ignore-table
-s file	backup=file
-S file	force-backup=file
-v	verbose=level
.TE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lilo.conf(5).
.br
The lilo distribution comes with very extensive documentation.
.SH "AUTHOR"
Werner Almesberger (almesber@bernina.ethz.ch).
.br
John Coffman (johninsd@san.rr.com) (lba32 extensions).
